Title: Discerning Regions With Heightened Car Accident Risks Through Statistical Testing

Introduction 
Car accidents are extremely destructive for individuals, families, and society as a whole. 
On the individual front, a car accident can change lives forever, or break families apart. 
That said, the toll taken on society by car accidents doesn't end here. 
The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that car accidents cost countries 3% of their GDP.
Knowing this, one of the solutions to decrease car crashes is
targeting specific areas with increased occurences of car crashes.
This present article will present a data driven, and statistical, 
solution to efficiently detect areas that are problematic. 
I decided to do such an analysis on my country of origin, Bulgaria.

The Data
The Bulgarian government recently released data on multiple sectors and themes for public view, and use.
Car crashes is one of these sectors. Here's a view of the data (pardon the bulgarian).

The Goal
We have total occurences, deaths, injuries, for a given region and year (2020 or 2021).
There is also percentage change and distinct difference.
At first, you may think that having percentage change and total occurences, injuries or deaths is good enough.
UNfortunately, these metrics are not robust enough to claim a certain region is a hotspot for accidents.
To present a thourough and robust analysis, we will want to see if year differences in occurences, injuries, and deaths are statistically significant.
Here are the steps to complete this project:
- Explore the data
- Model the data
- Carry out the statistical testing
- Present results

Exploring The Data
As mentionned above, we have one region per row, with its information (deaths, injuries, occurences, percentage change, and distinct change). 
Let's see the classic describe and info methods.
Let's see some basic statistics. 
First, we want to see top 3 most affected regions in 2020, and 2021. 

Then, we want to see the top 3 regions that have had the most increase and decrease between 2020 and 2021. 

Model The Data
That's a good start. As the data was in a fairly modified and modeled, we were able to easily extract basic statistics.
That said, in order to carry out significance testing we will need to change the shape of our dataframe. 
We want to pivot the data on the years. In other words, we want to create a Year column which will have 2020 or 2021 for values. 
Here's how we do it. 
- Create 2 arrays containing respectively the 2020 and 2021 columns
- Concatenate these two arrays containing the columns into a df
- Create Year column
- Keep only the columns needed (Occurences, Deaths, Injuries, Region, and Year)
- Clean the NaN values and rename the columns

Now let's create a new feature, the severity ratio. This will be computed by dividing deaths and injuries, to occurences as so: 
(deaths + injuries)/occurences. 
This will give us information on the number of people affected per occurence. 

Statistical Testing
Our data has the right shape to do statistical testing.
The logic behind statistical testing is to test a difference between two groups, to the means of randomly created groups.
We will test differences between 2020 and 2021 for a given region with occurences, deaths, injuries, and severity ratio. 
Here are the steps: 
- Determine a test statistic. In our case the test statistic is the difference between 2020 and 2021 for a given region.
- Randomly create two arrays with the 2020 and 2021 data for all regions and compute the mean difference of these two arrays. Repeat this operation 1000 times. 
- Compare our test statistic to the 1000 randomly created mean differences. 
- Create our p-value by calulating percentage of values greater than the mean difference
- See if our p-value is above a certain significance coefficient (0.05, 0.01, 0.001, etc...). If it is above a certain coefficient, our difference is not statistically significant.

Presenting the results
We now have 4 arrays with each regions that have a significant difference between 2020 and 2021. 
First, let's create the tooltip of our visual which will include three stars if the difference is significant, the percentage change, and distinct change. 
Now, add the tooltip to the visual.

And voila! Our visuals are done. 

Let's create a csv version of the dataframe, conditionally format the sheet to have a view of the affected regions in a sheet format. 
Here's the result after formatting. 

As we can see, the deaths have mostly significantly increased, with some decreases. This is fairly alarming as the occurences have not significantly increased. 
This means that once an accident occurs, it is more often fatal, and severe.  
The injuries have increased significantly for only two of the 30 regions. 

    